a star student back in
Gaza 17-year-old Leander Bashi can
finally shine
again going back to school genuinely
feels like reaching the moon for me
especially after the war um this might
sound exaggerated but I genuinely need
it Israel's war cost the teenager her
senior year of high school instead of
taking classes for months she's had to
take cover from Israeli bombs in a un
shelter in
hunis bombing was everywhere I couldn't
reach out to my teachers even though I
tried with a group of my friends to
continue our St our studies at home but
we couldn't do so evacuated to Doha four
months ago lean's back on track thanks
to a
scholarship here in Qatar some
Palestinians have a chance to resume
their studies education has always been
Central in Gaza even before Israel war
and while living under occupation the
strip had one of the highest literacy
rates in the world its schools played a
crucial role in empowering people as
well as preserving Palestinian culture
and
history traditionally gaza's produced
some of the top Achievers in high school
exams in the region but Relentless
Israeli attacks have forced education
facilities to close for a second year
the UN says 85% of school buildings are
damaged or completely destroyed and all
12 universities have been bombed among
them the one where ibraim had been
studying to become a
nurse the Israeli occupation forces
destroyed my University the Alazar
University and with it the dreams of my
classmates and my own this scholarship
from education above all is giving me a
new start opening a new chapter in his
life he's starting a degree at lcil
University just north of Doha
this time he chose psychology he wants
to help those in his community who've
experienced similar trauma to
heal but in qar Ibrahim is learning more
than just skills now movement today he's
trying on his brand new prosthetic leg
he lost both legs and an arm in an
Israeli attack improving both body and
mind Ibrahim is taking his first steps
towards a brighter future one in which
Palestinians Ed education and resilience
go hand in hand ipam genford Al jazer
Doha make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz